Combinatorics is one of the most important part of discrete mathematic combinatorics answer answers
the question How many possibilities there is.
So it should not surprise you that combinatorics have usage in many practical parts of our lives.
For example many people don't know that bad combinatorics is where it connected with security of computers.
For example when decrypting and encrypting data we use combinatorics.
So let's get started.
First thing I want to talk about is the ad rule and what that means.
Well if we want to compute possibilities of something that have or in it we use this for example if
I want to know how many possibilities do I have when I want to pick one element from a or b.
So since I have four elements I have four possibilities.
And since B have free elements I have additional free possibilities.
So the solution is for plus free.
So the result is seven.
I hope this makes sense.
Second row is the multiplication rule and that takes place when we need to do that.
C and this task can be split into Task A and B.
And if we can do a away.
And if we can do B and the ways we can do C and times and ways.
So let me show you an example if I have free t shirts and for trousers.
How many unique outfits can I have.
The answer is free times four.
And that is 12.
But I want you to also think about why is a 12.
Well if I take one of these free T-shirts I have four possible trousers.
So that is floor options then if I take the second T-shirt I have another four options and with 30 shirt
I have last four options.
And that gives me 12.
I hope you understand this.
So now let's take a look at a more advanced example that combines these concepts.
So imagine that dummy in restaurant and this restaurant has three main foods seven drinks and two desserts.
And I won one main food and one drink or dessert but not both.
How many options do I have.
Well my dinner can be split it into main food and drink or dessert.
So I will have three times one drink or dessert.
And as you can see we have or in this sentence so there should be seven plus two.
So the result is free time snide and that is just 27.
I hope this makes sense and that is pretty much it for this lecture.
If they have any problems feel free to contact me.
I will see you next time.